README.md, before:

# 秋霜玉

## Building

Currently, this project can only be built for 32-bit Windows, with Visual Studio ≥2022 and a Tup-based build setup.
However, since IDE integration is horribly broken for both Makefile and directory projects, we strongly recommend literally *anything else* to edit the code.

You'll therefore need the following:

1. Visual Studio Community ≥2022, with the *Desktop development for C++* workload.\
   If you haven't already installed the IDE for other projects and don't plan to, you can install only the command-line compilers via the [Build Tools installer](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/downloads/#build-tools-for-visual-studio-2022).

2. [Tup](https://gittup.org/tup/) in the latest Windows version.\
   Place `tup.exe` and its DLLs somewhere in your `PATH`.

3. Your favorite code editor.\
   A ready-to-use configuration for Visual Studio Code is part of this repository. Make sure to install the default recommended C++ extensions when asked.

To build:

1. Open Visual Studio's *x64_x86 Cross Tools Command Prompt*.
2. Navigate to the checkout directory of this repository.
3. Invoke `build.bat` in your way of choice:
   * If you use Visual Studio Code, open the editor from this command-line environment:

     ```batch
     code .
     ```

     Then, you can run the build task with the default `Ctrl-Shift-B` keybinding.

   * Or you can always run `build.bat` directly from this shell.

The binary will be put into the `bin/` subdirectory, where you can also place the game's original data files.

By default, both Debug and Release configurations are built.
If you only need one of them and want to speed up the build process, you can pick a single one by passing its binary file name as a parameter to `build.bat`:

```sh
build.bat bin/GIAN07.exe  # builds only in Release mode
build.bat bin/GIAN07d.exe # builds only in Debug mode
build.bat                 # builds in both modes
```

The Visual Studio Code configuration contains build tasks for all three possibilities.

## Debugging

.PDB files are generated for Debug and Release builds, so you should get symbol support with any Windows debugger.

### Visual Studio Code

Select between Debug and Release modes in the *Run and Debug* menu (`Ctrl-Shift-D` by default), and start debugging with the ▶ button or its keybinding.

### Visual Studio IDE

We don't support it for compilation, but you can still use it for debugging by running

```bat
devenv bin/GIAN07d.exe &::to run the Debug binary
devenv bin/GIAN07.exe  &::to run the Release binary
```

from the *x64_x86 Cross Tools Command Prompt*.
Strangely enough, this yields a superior IntelliSense performance than creating any sort of project. 🤷

----

Original README by pbg below.

----

## これは何？
* 西方プロジェクト第一弾 **秋霜玉** のソースコードです。
* コンパイルできるかもしれませんが, すべてのソースコードが含まれているわけではないのでリンクはできません。
* 画像、音楽、効果音、スクリプト等のリソースは含まれません。


## 参考までに
* 基本、開発当時（2000年前後）のままですが、文字コードを utf-8 に変更し、一部コメント（黒歴史ポエム）は削除してあります。インデント等も当時のままなので、読みにくい箇所があるかもしれません。
* 8bit/16bitカラーの混在、MIDI再生関連、浮動小数点数演算を避ける、あたりが懐かしポイントになるかと思います。
* 8.3形式のファイル名が多いのは、PC-98 時代に書いたコードの一部を流用していたためです。
* リソースのアーカイブ展開に関するコードはもろもろの影響を考え、このリポジトリには含めていません。


## ディレクトリ構成
* /**MAIN** : 秋霜玉WinMainあたり
* /**GIAN07** : 秋霜玉本体
* /**DirectXUTYs** : DirectX, MIDI再生、数学関数等の共通処理
* /**MapEdit2** : マップエディタ
* /**ECLC** : ECL(敵制御用) スクリプトコンパイラ
* /**SCLC** : SCL(敵配置用) スクリプトコンパイラ


## たぶん紛失してしまったソースコード
以下のコードについては、見つかり次第追加するかもしれません。
* リソースのアーカイバ


## ライセンス
* [MIT](LICENSE)

Commit message:

[Readme] Update partial builds for the vintage binary
Part of P0302, funded by Ember2528.

README.md, after:

# 秋霜玉

## Building

Currently, the Tup-based build setup only supports compiling with Visual Studio ≥2022.
However, since IDE integration is horribly broken for both Makefile and directory projects, we strongly recommend literally *anything else* to edit the code.

You'll therefore need the following:

1. Visual Studio Community ≥2022, with the *Desktop development for C++* workload.\
   If you haven't already installed the IDE for other projects and don't plan to, you can install only the command-line compilers via the [Build Tools installer](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/downloads/#build-tools-for-visual-studio-2022).

2. [Tup](https://gittup.org/tup/) in the latest Windows version.\
   Place `tup.exe` and its DLLs somewhere in your `PATH`.

3. Your favorite code editor.\
   A ready-to-use configuration for Visual Studio Code is part of this repository. Make sure to install the default recommended C++ extensions when asked.

To build:

1. Open Visual Studio's *x64_x86 Cross Tools Command Prompt*.
2. Navigate to the checkout directory of this repository.
3. Invoke `build.bat` in your way of choice:
   * If you use Visual Studio Code, open the editor from this command-line environment:

     ```batch
     code .
     ```

     Then, you can run the build task with the default `Ctrl-Shift-B` keybinding.

   * Or you can always run `build.bat` directly from this shell.

The binary will be put into the `bin/` subdirectory, where you can also place the game's original data files.

### Filtering build outputs

By default, the process builds both Debug and Release configurations of all binaries.
If you only need a few of them and want to speed up the build process, you can specify any number of target binary filenames as a parameter to the build batch file.

On Windows:

```sh
build.bat bin/GIAN07.exe  # builds only the modern Release binary
build.bat bin/GIAN07d.exe # builds only the modern Debug binary
build.bat                 # builds all binaries, including the vintage ones
```

The Visual Studio Code configuration contains build tasks for all five possibilities.

## Debugging

.PDB files are generated for Debug and Release builds, so you should get symbol support with any Windows debugger.

### Visual Studio Code

Select between Debug and Release modes in the *Run and Debug* menu (`Ctrl-Shift-D` by default), and start debugging with the ▶ button or its keybinding.

### Visual Studio IDE

We don't support it for compilation, but you can still use it for debugging by running

```bat
devenv bin/GIAN07d.exe &::to run the Debug binary
devenv bin/GIAN07.exe  &::to run the Release binary
```

from the *x64_x86 Cross Tools Command Prompt*.
Strangely enough, this yields a superior IntelliSense performance than creating any sort of project. 🤷

----

Original README by pbg below.

----

## これは何？
* 西方プロジェクト第一弾 **秋霜玉** のソースコードです。
* コンパイルできるかもしれませんが, すべてのソースコードが含まれているわけではないのでリンクはできません。
* 画像、音楽、効果音、スクリプト等のリソースは含まれません。


## 参考までに
* 基本、開発当時（2000年前後）のままですが、文字コードを utf-8 に変更し、一部コメント（黒歴史ポエム）は削除してあります。インデント等も当時のままなので、読みにくい箇所があるかもしれません。
* 8bit/16bitカラーの混在、MIDI再生関連、浮動小数点数演算を避ける、あたりが懐かしポイントになるかと思います。
* 8.3形式のファイル名が多いのは、PC-98 時代に書いたコードの一部を流用していたためです。
* リソースのアーカイブ展開に関するコードはもろもろの影響を考え、このリポジトリには含めていません。


## ディレクトリ構成
* /**MAIN** : 秋霜玉WinMainあたり
* /**GIAN07** : 秋霜玉本体
* /**DirectXUTYs** : DirectX, MIDI再生、数学関数等の共通処理
* /**MapEdit2** : マップエディタ
* /**ECLC** : ECL(敵制御用) スクリプトコンパイラ
* /**SCLC** : SCL(敵配置用) スクリプトコンパイラ


## たぶん紛失してしまったソースコード
以下のコードについては、見つかり次第追加するかもしれません。
* リソースのアーカイバ


## ライセンス
* [MIT](LICENSE)
